README.md, before:

<img src="logo.png" width="300">

# Staticman [![coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-81%25-yellow.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/eduardoboucas/staticman) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/eduardoboucas/staticman.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/eduardoboucas/staticman) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-airbnb-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)

> Static sites with superpowers

## Introduction

Staticman is a Node.js application that receives user-generated content and uploads it as data files to a GitHub and/or GitLab repository. In practice, this allows you to have dynamic content (e.g. blog post comments) as part of a fully static website, as long as your site automatically deploys on every push to GitHub and/or GitLab, as seen on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), [GitLab Pages](https://about.gitlab.com/product/pages/), [Netlify](http://netlify.com/) and others.

It consists of a small web service that handles the `POST` requests from your forms, runs various forms of validation and manipulation defined by you and finally pushes them to your repository as data files. You can choose to enable moderation, which means files will be pushed to a separate branch and a pull request will be created for your approval, or disable it completely, meaning that files will be pushed to the main branch automatically.

You can download and run the Staticman API on your own infrastructure. The easiest way to get a personal Staticman API instance up and running is to use the free tier of Heroku. If deploying to Heroku you can simply click the button below and enter your config variables directly into Heroku as environment variables.

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

## Requirements

- Node.js 14.15.1+
- npm
- A [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/) for the GitHub and/or GitLab account you want to run Staticman with
- An RSA key in PEM format

## Setting up the server on your own infrastructure

NOTE: The below steps are not required if deploying to Heroku. To deploy to Heroku, click the above deploy button and enter your configuration variables in the Heroku Dashboard.

- Clone the repository and install the dependencies via npm.

  ```
  git clone git@github.com:eduardoboucas/staticman.git
  cd staticman
  npm install
  ```

- Create a development config file from the sample file.

  ```
  cp config/sample.json config/development.json
  ```

- Edit the newly-created config file with your GitHub and/or GitLab access token, SSH private key and the port to run the server. Click [here](https://staticman.net/docs/api) for the list of available configuration parameters.

- Start the server.

  ```
  npm start
  ```

Each environment, determined by the `NODE_ENV` environment variable, requires its own configuration file. When you're ready to push your Staticman API live, create a `config.production.json` file before deploying.

Check [this guide](docs/docker.md) if you're using Docker.

## Setting up a repository

Staticman runs as a bot using a GitHub and/or GitLab account, as opposed to accessing your account using the traditional OAuth flow. This means that you can give it access to just the repositories you're planning on using it on, instead of exposing all your repositories.

To add Staticman to a repository, you need to add the bot as a collaborator with write access to the repository and ask the bot to accept the invite by firing a `GET` request to this URL:

```
http://your-staticman-url/v3/connect/GITHUB-USERNAME/GITHUB-REPOSITORY
```

The full Staticman API documentation [can be found here](https://api.staticman.net/api-docs).

## Site configuration

Staticman will look for a config file. For the deprecated `v1` endpoints, this is a `_config.yml` with a `staticman` property inside; for `v2` endpoints, Staticman looks for a `staticman.yml` file at the root of the repository.

For a list of available configuration parameters, please refer to the [documentation page](https://staticman.net/docs/configuration).

## Development

Would you like to contribute to Staticman? That's great! Here's how:

1. Read the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
1. Pull the repository and start hacking
1. Run the dev server with `npm start-dev`
1. Generated API docs are accessible at the `/api-docs` endpoint
1. Make sure tests are passing by running `npm test`
1. Send a pull request and celebrate

## Useful links

- [Detailed Site and API Setup Guide](https://travisdowns.github.io/blog/2020/02/05/now-with-comments.html)
- [Improving Static Comments with Jekyll & Staticman](https://mademistakes.com/articles/improving-jekyll-static-comments/)
- [Hugo + Staticman: Nested Replies and E-mail Notifications](https://networkhobo.com/2017/12/30/hugo-staticman-nested-replies-and-e-mail-notifications/)

Commit message:

Update GitHub app auth flow, migrate docs to website PR#400

README.md, after:

<img src="logo.png" width="300">

# Staticman [![coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-81%25-yellow.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/eduardoboucas/staticman) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/eduardoboucas/staticman.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/eduardoboucas/staticman) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-airbnb-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)

> Static sites with superpowers

## Introduction

Staticman is a Node.js application that receives user-generated content and uploads it as data files to a GitHub and/or GitLab repository. In practice, this allows you to have dynamic content (e.g. blog post comments) as part of a fully static website, as long as your site automatically deploys on every push to GitHub and/or GitLab, as seen on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), [GitLab Pages](https://about.gitlab.com/product/pages/), [Netlify](http://netlify.com/) and others.

It consists of a small web service that handles the `POST` requests from your forms, runs various forms of validation and manipulation defined by you and finally pushes them to your repository as data files. You can choose to enable moderation, which means files will be pushed to a separate branch and a pull request will be created for your approval, or disable it completely, meaning that files will be pushed to the main branch automatically.

You can download and run the Staticman API on your own infrastructure. The easiest way to get a personal Staticman API instance up and running is to use the free tier of Heroku. If deploying to Heroku you can simply click the button below and enter your config variables directly into Heroku as environment variables.

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

## Requirements

- Node.js 14.15.1+
- npm
- Static site with repo hosted on GitHub or GitLab
- An RSA key in PEM format

## Getting Started

For instructions on setting up your own Staticman instance and integrating with your static site, please refer to [the official documentation website](https://staticman.net/).

## Development

Check [this guide](docs/docker.md) if you're using Docker. Otherwise follow the below steps

- Clone the repository and install the dependencies via npm.

  ```bash
  git clone git@github.com:eduardoboucas/staticman.git
  cd staticman
  npm install
  ```

- Create a development config file from the sample file.

  ```bash
  cp config/sample.json config/development.json
  ```

  **Note:** Each environment, determined by the `NODE_ENV` environment variable, requires its own configuration file. When you're ready to push your Staticman API to production, use `config.production.json`.

- Edit the new development config file with your GitHub and/or GitLab credentials, RSA private key and the port to run the server. Click [here](https://staticman.net/docs/api) for the list of available configuration parameters.

- Start the server.

  ```bash
  npm start
  ```

## Contributing

Would you like to contribute to Staticman? That's great! Here's how:

1. Read the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
1. Pull the repository and start hacking
1. Run the dev server with `npm start-dev`
1. Generated API docs are accessible at the `/api-docs` endpoint
1. Make sure tests are passing by running `npm test`
1. Send a pull request and celebrate

## Useful links

- [Detailed Site and API Setup Guide](https://travisdowns.github.io/blog/2020/02/05/now-with-comments.html)
- [Improving Static Comments with Jekyll & Staticman](https://mademistakes.com/articles/improving-jekyll-static-comments/)
- [Hugo + Staticman: Nested Replies and E-mail Notifications](https://networkhobo.com/2017/12/30/hugo-staticman-nested-replies-and-e-mail-notifications/)
